I really didn't know what was going on.
I forget what my last words were.
I don't want to hear them again.
How well did you know the Williams at that point?
Gee whiz, I knew Jack, of course.
Moderately well.
And your impressions of him in personality and sociology?
Oh, I thought he was a wonderful person.
Still do.
Can't ever get over that.
Did you know that he had any heart worries?
No, no.
Nor had he any history like what he was telling me about that day and what she described.
It had never happened before.
It was an arrhythmia.
Describe that conversation.
I had the same thing myself.
I can tell you exactly how it feels.
Describe the conversation.
The conversation was such that we were sitting side by side on a sofa, and all of a sudden, and we were just talking about how he felt.
And all of a sudden, he wasn't there.
He was just like that, lost consciousness.
And I had no idea what it was.
We hadn't really gotten around to that, except I sort of guessed hard.
And the first thing I thought of doing was just getting him on the chest.
And I did exactly that.
And when I did that, he came back and he was talking then as if nothing had ever happened.
And that probably happened
Two or three times.
And all times I would give him the thump.
That afternoon?
That afternoon.
And he would come to and he would be okay.
And that's when I got on the phone and talked to Francis Goff at the health center and said, get some, get the ambulance over here, get some oxygen over in the meantime.
And there was no 911 then and call,
the ambulance, we want to go to the St.
Joseph Hospital.
And I'd forgotten that my car was parked out in the, in the Oval driveway.
And when, consequently, when the ambulance came in, they came in behind my car.
And when the, the, we were sitting there talking, it happened again, and Francis was on the way, and I hit him again.
And he came to and I said, let's get out of here.
And by this time, Francis had just walked in and I said, let's get out of here.
And she understood what was going on.
So we got him in the ambulance and all of a sudden the ambulance couldn't get out.
You know, they didn't want to go across the grass.
Excuse me.
Margaret said, go right across that grass.
And so they did in the ambulance and they made ruts that deep.
I'll never forget that.
I'm sure the grounds maintenance was mad at them for that.
But then of course we brought him on over to St.
Joseph Hospital.
Then I saw very little of him after that.
Nelda Green was over there.
And I guess Nelda had brought Margaret.
But I stayed over there for the whole afternoon because I remember when the helicopter, I was there when the helicopter took off with him going to Houston and it was dark.
So I really don't know much about his course once we got him over there.
I don't know who treated him.
Who could it have been?
Harry Lipscomb maybe?
And as far as you know, what had he been doing before that afternoon immediately?
Nothing that I don't remember.
Certainly nothing exertional.
I don't think he was under any greater emotional tension than usual.
I do recall that Margaret
blamed it on the board right at the very start.
I must have known her well enough that she would say that to me.
Because she was just fighting mad about that.
And as you said, and I wasn't even aware, didn't get over it for a long, long time.
And you didn't give him any medication?
I didn't give him any medication, no.
There was really nothing.
I had nothing.
I had my little black bag, which just had the basic stuff in there, and nothing else.
I don't even recall that I had a chance.
Well, I must have had a chance to take his blood pressure, at least when he was conscious right at first, although I don't remember it.
When you all leave the house, he's unconscious?
He's unconscious.
We're doing CPR.
Actually, that crossing the grass, if you will, was so rough that Francis held me while I did CPR on him when it was rough.
than I held her when we alternated as we did.
We didn't have to do the mouth-to-mouth resuscitation because we had the bag, the oxygen bag.
Was he conscious?
No, he wasn't conscious.
Okay.
Were you concerned that he had died?
Or was it close?
It was certainly close.
If in fact, he may very well have been dead with the very first episode, for all I know, if I hadn't been there.
I was very fortunate to have been there and considered myself.
I had a similar situation with that at the health center.
I had a ventricular tachycardia.
It had been a terribly rough day, a lot of emotional problems, and I remember getting up and from my desk and walking out to Patsy Luce's desk, she was the secretary,
And I said, I feel faint.
And I fainted into a chair beside her desk.
And Peggy Shelton, I was unconscious of course.
And Peggy Shelton came up and I was sort of leaning over.
I don't remember it, they told me this.
And she hit me in the chest with her knee.
And that hurt too, afterward.
But I remember coming too and from then I was perfectly conscious as a matter of fact so much so that they put me on a stretcher and with a sheet over me and they wanted to roll me through the waiting room and I didn't want to roll through the waiting room.
So I said how am I going to do this situation?
So I ended up covering my head up.
And then I went through, so I don't know, I didn't see anybody, but I didn't want anybody to see me.
You rode with to St.
Joseph.
Yes.
In the current location, St.
Joseph.
In the current location, exactly.
And you stayed with him, and who decided to call Houston?
Was that you or?
No, it wasn't me because I don't remember who was, I'm thinking maybe, I know Harry Lipscomb treated me.
Dr. Williams is still unconscious.
He's still unconscious as far as I know.
Oh, I'm sure he had some external defibrillation, you know, the paddles.
I'm sure he must have had that by that time.
Do you remember who was on the, was there anybody particular on the helicopter from,
It wasn't Red Duke, I presume.
On the helicopter.
No, no, it wasn't Red.
And they flew him to where?
To what?
To, oh, where's the pad?
He ended up at St.
Luke's.
But I think the helicopter pad in the trauma center, at least it is now I know, is in, what's the old hospital down there?
With Herman.
And this was what time of night when they left St.
Joseph's?
It was dark, I remember.
I don't, I really don't remember the time.
And Mrs. Williams, how did she get down there?
I don't know.
She may have gone on the helicopter.
Through those three?
Only thing, I remember that Nelda and I were left together and watching the helicopter disappear.
Remember any conversation that the two of you had about it?
No.
No, I don't.
It's a funny thing.
I can see their car, Nelda driving their car.
that new model Cadillac whatever it happened to be and I can see in my mind as vividly as I'm sitting here right now pulling into the garage at the president's house and seeing the lights of the car on the back wall of the garage and and that's my memories
I stopped a little before that and after that, but I remember specifically that, and I don't know why I remember that.
And he's down there in Houston about how long?
Boy, he was down there I'm sure for weeks.
And DeBakey gets involved, doesn't he?
DeBakey got involved.
In order to do his surgery, you know nowadays, of course, for so-called open-heart surgery,
coronary artery surgery they don't they don't pack in ice they don't lower metabolism to the point that so what if the heart doesn't beat it's a bypass machine now but they did that for him and
As far as I know, he never complained of frostbite or being cold, or it seemed to have any, but he was most certainly packed in the ice for the surgery and afterward, and nobody
visitor wise or from up here to my knowledge maybe you saw him during that period of time.
But as far as I know I was the first one to see him and it was because I was dumb enough to that we were down in Houston and I said well I'll just drop in and see Jack Williams and I did.
Describe that please.
I just simply told nurses or someone, whoever asked where he was, went there.
This was when he was recovering now.
He's in his private room.
And I said, I'm Dr. Goswick.
And I said, I treated Dr. Williams at A&M.
You know, I presented it to them so matter-of-factly, and so this is the way it's going to be.
I'd like to see them, you know.
And so in they ushered me.
And Margaret was the only one in there.
And I stood at the foot of the bed.
And Margaret said to Jack, Jack was a little bit groggy I think maybe as for instance he would be sleepy.
But he also may have been sedated as well.
pointed out to him that there I was, that I had saved his life, and that embarrassed me so much.
Oh, that embarrassed me to death.
But that is, that may be the reason.
And then I came back.
I realized that he was doing well, you know.
Was he able to converse with you at all?
Yes, yes, uh-huh.
But in a sedative, sleepy sort of way.
Um, and it may have been a combination, but I came back here and I told John at staff meeting, uh, I'm not sure John had his meetings on Wednesdays or Mondays, but in any case, the first staff meeting I went to, I hadn't told anybody.
I told John, and Perry in particular, that I had gone to see Jack.
And their mouths dropped open and they said, nobody goes to see him.
I said, I stupidly went in, you know, and I just barged right in, and nobody got me by the shirt tail and pulled me out, so there I was.
But that's really how it happened.
Then when he came back home, did you see him pretty soon after that?
I can't remember precisely when I saw him.
But I'm sure I did.
But I can't, I don't, I remember none of those details.
All right, this is an editorial note to be added to this.
Soon after Dr. Williams came back, and I believe before he officially was going to his office,
My wife and I were invited over to their house on the campus, the president's house, for supper.
Just the two of us.
He greeted us at the front door and I think had on a guayabera shirt.
And I thought that he looked thinner than he did before the surgery.
And after we went in and congratulated him on his energy and his appearance and so forth, he asked, would you like to see my scar?
And he then unbuttoned his shirt and I saw this very long scar that began right up near the base of his neck and went, I think, almost all the way down to the middle of his stomach, almost to his navel.
Yeah.
And he seemed to be pretty darn much like the Jack
Williams that I had so admired before him.
You know, it was a long time that he was, after he was in the ice, and I'm not sure how long after the surgery they kept him in the ice, that he was unconscious.
Are you talking about days?
Yeah, days, days.
Maybe even more.
And really, no one knew whether he was going to recover from the surgery or not.
Now, I heard a, you know, this is 99th hand, that Dr. DeBakey one morning asked Mrs. Williams to sign a permission form
for him to do some comparatively new surgery.
And that she asked him, well, if she... Is this after the surgery?
No, no, this is before the... Oh, okay.
And that she said, well, if we don't do it, what are the choices?
And what I heard was that Dr. Bakey said he may be dead by daylight.
Yeah.
And that then he was unconscious for...
Maybe two or three weeks.
Yes, yes, after that.
And finally regained, so it's no wonder that he would have lost weight.
All right, as you began then to have any contact with him after he, quote, recovers, did you see any difference in his personality, his energy?
No, not really.
No, no.
Now, then I didn't continue to have really close contact with him after that.
So perhaps it's not a completely fair judgment to make, but I didn't see any difference.
And they then, after he became chancellor,
They move over to the old board house and it burned.
Did you ever get called over there?
Never.
Matter of fact, it had burned before June of 73.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
You're talking about the old president's house.
Old president's house.
This old board house over north of Sabisa.
And they were living downstairs and the NM Press was upstairs.
And it burned while Jarvis was president
and Dr. Williams was chancellor, the old board of directors house.
Yes, I should remember that, shouldn't I?
Where was that?
I don't know.
This is about 77 or 80.
It had to be 80 because Jarvis was president when I got the former student's award.
See, Jarvis becomes president in 77 through 80.
All right, well, as you... I've got to remember a second fire, but I don't.
All right, when Dr. Miller becomes president, did that have any effect on you and the health center?
No.
Did you have any interaction with the Millers?
Much less.
Some.
Football games.
Well, I think maybe a football game or two sitting in the booth.
But bonfires, special occasions like that, yes.
But that was, you know, just very social.
Chuck Simpson is interim president.
And then Frank Vandiver comes in 81.
What about your interaction with Frank and his wife?
Frank much more because of his bigger family and he they tended to call on me for things more illnesses and so forth and so on and I never minded.
We did a little surgery on him I think I've mentioned in the
treatment room in the health center incising the thrombosed hemorrhoids and I would go over there when Renee was ill and in bed.
I treated the children.
I'll never forget
One of the younger boys, Rene's boy, he didn't like injections and he had to go to school and he had to get an injection.
So they sent him over to the health center
I'm sure they couldn't possibly have known that how he was going to act, but he ran away.
And I went out with the syringe in my hand.
I went out and sat on the front steps of the health center.
And I looked, because I knew he was on the side of the house, and I'd look, and I'd see him out of the corner of my eyes.
He'd stick his head out.
Finally, he came out, and he let me give him the injection on the front steps.
I forget his name.
But I had had problems giving him injections, but I did that for them.
And there were so many kids in the family then.
And I...
House calls to the Vandivers were a little bit closer together than anybody else's had been.
Then he's followed by Bill Mobley?
Yes, and I didn't even know him.
Because, you see, a year after Jack had his heart problem, I had mine.
In January of 88, I had mine.
I had surgery and I have the scar to show for it.
You said 88, you mean 78.
Do I mean 78?
No, I lost 10 years somewhere.
When you had your heart problems?
In 88.
88, okay.
Because that's when I retired.
Oh, okay.
I've lost 10 years there.
All right.
And I missed a flyer.
Doggone it.
We don't want to get to that at this point.
Give some of the extreme experiences of all the years at the health center
in some of the high points, low points, goofy things, serious things?
Share some of the... Oh, let's see, goodness.
Certainly one of the high points was the weekend of the dedication of the health center, the new... Well, actually it was a new party.
There was no dedication of the add-on.
when I got to meet Mrs. Boydle and her son, or at least one of her sons.
And that, I think, is the first time I ever saw Jack.
Maybe it wasn't the first time I ever saw him, but, you know, related to him in any way.
I even, in my little acceptance speech, I even was describing the services that the health center was going to offer.
And I said one of them was going to be obstetrics.
And I immediately realized, I mean orthopedics, not obstetrics, and said that.
And he got a kick out of it and sent me a note later on to the effect, the next week maybe, to the effect that I did that with great humor or something to that effect.
It was a total accident.
That was a memorable time, showing them around the health center and being so proud of it and the art exhibit and so forth.
I was always proud of the new addition to the Health Center that I helped with and the fact, and this is something we didn't say anything about, that Bill Fife
had his hyperbaric chamber down in the basement of the health center.
We had space down there that we weren't using, had no plans for, and the biology department was kicking him out.
And he had no place to go with the hyperbaric chamber.
So I suggested that we put it in the health center.
And then he used it for his experiments, not animal experiments, but human, you know, where people could go in there.
And I forgot now what I was going to say.
All right.
With Jack Williams, we both share this deep respect for him and so forth.
What was it about Williams that
caused people to feel so positive?
Why did you respect him so much?
When he came to the health center, I would walk through the waiting area.
The waiting area was in the very front.
The students were all sitting there.
And he would come, and it took me 10 minutes to get him through the waiting room.
He would stop and speak with everybody, shake hands, smile, you know, from ear to ear, literally.
And there was not a stranger in the group, and they all knew who he was, is.
And those notes, those notes he would send that were truly personal,
He would almost always send notes, and I never kept all of them, except there's some in those books.
There's one of those books I put them in.
As a matter of fact, I shared that with one of my sons when he started up his company and used them because I thought he could benefit by what Jack said.
But anyway, you're welcome to read those.
And Mrs. Williams and her personality.
I loved her too.
I loved her honesty.
How should I say?
I questioned the wisdom of her being so honest.
Her candor.
Her candor, to say the least.
But I loved her for that.
You were talking about some of the high points and proudest moments.
The health center itself, the new building and the addition of the new building,
My relationship with Frances Goff, the supervisor of marriages, was always good at tops.
I could trust her.
She could trust me.
We, I guess you might say we had some secrets.
I don't know what they were, but a wonderful relationship, work relationship with her.
Fantastic work ethic.
How often did a student and or a relative of a student ever come back and show any appreciation to the health center?
I'd have to say honestly very seldom, but there were some.
Certainly the mother who gave us the car.
I don't remember ever seeing her, but she gave us the car.
I think Francis probably heard more expressions of thanks than I did.
I was sued one time while I was out there, and it's the only time ever in my life for that matter.
A boy who developed an osteomyelitis because of an infection in his skin, Larry Coleman, our orthopedist, our consultant, was treating him at the time.
And I don't blame Larry for it, but Larry was in effect responsible because I had tried to mention to him
tactfully that this guy had this skin infection.
We had a culture of a staphylococcus and that was a little bit of, and he had a fracture of, had had a compound fracture and had a fracture, it was his leg and that I was afraid of it and leery of it and
it just sort of slipped by and didn't really get treated adequately.
And so he was sued and so was I because I had part in his treatment.
I think that, well, I know that the insurance company settled it.
The state settled the thing.
All right.
Do you remember some situations where you all were very, very proud of the service you were able to render for this student in that situation?
The way with the aides?
Mm-hmm.
Oh, you mean in the guy with osteomyelitis?
Well, no, no, anything.
Oh, gracious.
I was extremely proud that we could do all that we did do.
Since I worked in the treatment room a lot, suturing of lasperations and just simply being able to, with good nurses and good equipment,
being able to do good jobs.
And plastic, plastic in the sense of very meticulous work so that there's little or no scarring.
Being able to do that kind of work on students.
Gus, Gus.
Were there any, did y'all ever recall?
Bet you hate cats.
Did y'all ever recall any of the goofy,
excuses that students gave for how they had their problem, their injury?
Surely there must have been some.
Oh, there must have been thousands.
And you know, Frances would know a lot more of those than I do.
Frances, incidentally, has Parkinson's disease now.
And I think her memory is not nearly as good as it has been.
I would even suggest that you might even want to talk with her.
You say, maybe I could?
I would suggest that, but I don't know how she...
Her memory is not too good.
For example, did illnesses and injuries increase as final exams approached?